---
title: 'Set TimeOut when importing large CRM Dynamics customisation file'
date: Mon, 14 Mar 2016 22:57:16 +0000
draft: false
tags: ['CRM Dynamics 2015', 'Deployment', 'Import-CrmPackage', 'PowerShell', 'Timeout PowerShell Import Package']
---

Recently while trying to deploy a CRM package into system test  environment using the import-crmpackage command via PowerShell, time-out was occurring despite doubling the RAM memory as well as removing a lot of checkpoints from the machine. On the DEV environment, the deployment was taking around 20 mins. The DEV machine has more resources allocated explaining why the time-out was not spotted. To resolve the timeout issue, the lengthy instructions from [Microsoft Knowledge Base Article](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/kb/918609) can be followed. A simpler solution would be to set the timeout property during import. From the [Import-CrmPackage documentation](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dn756301.aspx) the -timeout property is of type string and meant for internal purpose only. The format of data the -timeout property is not evident. We tried passing "3600" which would be 1 hour if the property was expecting seconds, however the import-crmpackage failed because of invalid data. `Import-CrmPackage -CrmConnection $CRMConn -PackageDirectory "$($filePath)" -PackageName CRMPackageDeploymentTest.dll -Verbose -Timeout "3600"; Import-` Using a .Net Reflector tool, we managed to find out the format the timeout property needs to be passed is a timespan object of format "g". By default the timeout is set to 30 mins. `Import-CrmPackage -CrmConnection $CRMConn -PackageDirectory "$($filePath)" -PackageName CRMPackageDeploymentTest.dll -Verbose -Timeout "1:00:00";` The deployment process took 34 mins to finish and timeout error was not thrown.